In the previous section you've learned about
RESTful API development with Laravel.
So now you have REST server and you can consume
your APIs for internal or external use. Internal
use means both API and user interface are in one
place or one application as we've done so far.
External use means both API and user
interface placed in separate application.
So you have one application as REST API server
and you could have mobile app or a javascript app
that will consume your APIs. In this section we're
gonna build single page application or SPA and
consume our APIs that we have build internally because
I think this way is very easy and we don't need
to do a lot of stuffs. Now before moving forward
let's update our npm packages because as you might
seen when you're pushing your changes to github
it show you vulnerabilities warning. So if you're unsure
about your NPM packages you can go to your terminal
and type npm audit.
If you get something like these
then you need to fix your NPM packages.
So here you can see the package name that you need to fix
dependency information and so on
here in the bottom I have 384 hight severity vulnerabilities.
And here NPM also suggest to run npm audit fix. This
command will automatically install compatible
updates to vulnerable dependencies.
All right
before we do that let's create a new branch to isolate
new changes that will make git checkout -b and
the brand name
let's say audit npm packages or you can give it any name you like.
Now let's run that npm
audit fix
once that
done we can execute the npm audit again
and now I get found 0 vulnerabilities.
Okay we fixed our NPM packages from security
vulnerabilities by executing NPM audit fixed.
Now I also want to make sure I don't have outdated
packages. Here I can say NPM outdated
here I have some outdated packages in a second column
we can see the current version next column we
can see the wanted version which means the maximum version of the package that satisfies the semver
or a semantic version in range specified in packages
dot json. While the last one shows us the latest
version or the version of the package
tagged as latest in the registry.
Here we can execute npm update to get the
latest non breaking changes for all packages.
If you want to update the next major version
you can execute npm install package name
at and specify the version.
But be careful because it could have breaking changes
and you will need to update your application to
accommodate those changes. So to
updates all NPM packages safely
let's run npm update instead.
Now if I run and npm outdated again
here you'll see the color turns to yellow and you also
see the same version on current and wanted column.
All right
the next thing that I want to do is to update font
awesome.
So when I start building this project I used font awesome version
let me see that in package dot
json
so here I used version 5.0.13
Now the reason why I want to update it is to make
sure that everything is up to date as possible.
But if you don't want to updated it, it doesn't matter.
Or if you follow the font awesome installation in "New
Laravel versions reference guide" then you can skip
this.
So the current version now is 5.11 and
installing the new one is slightly different.
So let me uninstall my old font awesome. I'll copy this
and here I'm going to say npm uninstall
also this one
npm uninstall and paste hit return
once that done I can install font awesome svg core
package by saying npm install fort awesome font
awesome svg
core dash d
then I'll need to install solid icons
fort awesome free solid svg icons
All right let me go to my editor
then open font
awesome dot js
here
firstly I need to import the config library
and dom from font awesome svg core
here
I can optionally set config
auto replace svg to nest
then I can import the font like so
and now I can remove this lines
and here I no longer need to call font awesome here just library
add
we can remove with these brackets
and last we can say dom watch.
This command will find i tags and replace with svg.
All right
let me set save these change back to terminal
and run Laravel mix by saying npm run
watch
Now here
when running the new version of Laravel mix it will
install other dependencies such as vue template
compiler
All right let me go to my browser and reload a page. Ups
it's look like I made a mistake removing navbar
laravel css rule in my app dot scss when
upgrading laravel app.
So let me open that file
and here I'll rewrite the css rule for navbar laravel
let me save this change back to my browser
and reload
OK I think it's better.
Now let's commit all the changes that we made
to our git repo. Back to terminal hit control+c
and here git and all. git commit -m and I'll say fix
vulnerable
NPM packages and update font awesome.
Now we can switch to monster branch.
git
checkout master
and merge to our latest branch git merge
audit npm packages
and now let's push the changes in
our master branch to our remote
repo git push origin master.
All right now let's finally start our journey
on building single page application.